# Zorn's Lemma
Let F be a non-empty poset.  
If for every chain(*) in F exists an upper bound in F, then F has at least one maximal element.
---------------
(*) totally ordered subset  

**An Independent Set** - a set in which every two distinct elements are incomparable.  

**Proof all Vector Spaces have a base:**  
Let V be a Vector Space  
- If V is finitely generated then we can add vectors from V to ∅ until it's spanning V.
Suppose V is not finitely generated let's Define F as the set of all linearly independant sets of vectors.  
F is linearly ordered by the order of inclusion of sets.  
Let C=(Ai)i∈I be a chain in F. A=∪Ai(i∈I)). A is clearly a maximal element of the chain. Let's proove it's in F.  
Assume A isn't in F there exist a **finite** series of linearly dependent vectors, each is an element of a finite series of elements of C.  
Since that series is finite, and linearly order as a subset of C, There exists a maximal element that must contain all the vectors in the linearly independent vector series. but that element is in F so it's both linearly dependent and independent at the same time! ⇒⊥
 ◼ 

Let a,b be two cardinals other than zero. we'll proove either a≦b or b≦a  
Assume a,b≠0 (that case is trivial).  
Let A,B be groups of cardinals a,b
Define F to be the set of all ordered pairs (X,f) such that:  
- f is an injective function from X⊆A to B.
- Also define an order as such (X₁,f₁)≦(X₂,f₂)　⇔　X₁⊆X₂ ∧ f₂｜X₁＝f₁
Let C=((X₁,f₁),(X₂,f₂)...) be a chain in F, (X,g)=(∪Xi,Ufi) //union of function here means unions of the function's ordered pairs.  
- Since C is a chain (Xi,fi)≦(X,g) for all i∈I of C. If g isn't a function then two functions from the union are incomparable in contradiction to C being a chain, thus g is a well defined function.
- A a union of injective functions it's also injective.  
We have proven Zorn's lemma and filled the conditions thus F has a maximal element (D,h).
if D=A, h is injective ⇒　a≦b.  
if not than suppose h isn't surjective, we get a'∈A b'∈B such that (D,h)＜(D,(a',b')UH) in contradiction to the maximal element's definition.  
thus h is surjctive ⇒　b≦a
 ◼ 

Proof for a+a=2a/a={0,1}xa made in a similar fashion.  
We get that h is a bijection(F for is for bijections this time) so if D=X we're done  
else if X\D is infinite we get there's a Z s.t. |Z|=ℵ0 and a bijection k from Z to ZxZ, and h∪k is contradicting h's maximality.  
if X\D is finite D must euqal X and we're done.  
corrolaries
- a+b = max{a,b}
- |A\B| = a (iif a≧b)
axa=a(hard proof but in a similar fashion) ⇒　axb=max{a,b}
a^a = 2^a
