# Well Order
A partially ordered set (X,≦) is well ordered iff ∀S⊆X(S≠∅ ⇒ ∃b∈S　b is a minimal element)  
Think about the following theorems:
- Every finite totally ordered set is well ordered
- If ≦ is a well order then it's a linear order as well
- Let (X,≦) be a linearly ordered set. It's well ordered iff an it doesn't include an infinite decreasing series.

We'll proceed to define two very similar terms.  
- **Risha -** If X is well ordered A⊆X(usually we mean A⊂X) is a Risha if x∈A ∧ x＜y ⇒ y∈A.
- **Ix(a)** - {x∈X:x<a} //aka initial segement of a in X
```note: \[0,0.5\] in R is a Risha but not an initial segment. Yet in wosets you can prove they are the same```

## Comparison of well ordered sets
If X,Y are wosets then exatcly one of the following is true:  
1. (X,≤x)≅(Y,≤y) 
2. ∃y0∈Y : (X,≤x)≅(Iy(y0),≤y)
3. ∃x0∈X : (Y,≤y)≅(Ix(x0),≤x)
lemmas:
- let X be a woset, f:X->X a one-to-one homomorphism. ⇒ ∀ｘ∈X(f(x)≧x)
- let (X,≤x)≅(Y,≤y) be isomorphic wosets, there's only one unique isomorphism betweem them (proof using previous theorem)
- in a woset X a risha can't be have an isomorphism with X
- if Ix(a)≅Ix(b) then a=b
- let f:X ↦ Y be an isomorphism between wosets s.t. y0=f(x0) ⇒ Ix(x0)=Iy(y0)
proof:  
if either X or Y are ∅ the proof is trivial. Asumming they're not empty we'll define  
A = {x∈X: ∃y∈Y s.t. Ix(x)≅Iy(y)}
We'll notice for every x there's a unique y, else we'll get Iy(y1)≅Iy(y2)=⊥
B = {y∈Y: ∃x∈X s.t. Ix(x)≅Iy(y)}
Let φ＝A ↦ B be the function that returns for x its y s.t. Ix(x)≅Iy(y) - φ is a bijection(Why?).
We'll show φ is an isomorphism. let x1,x2∈X　s.t. x1<x2. φ(x1)=y1, φ(x2)=y2.  
by φ's definition Ix(x2)≅Iy(y2), let's mark that (unique) isomorphism α.  
x1<x2 ⇒ x1∈Domα ⇒ α(x1)∈Imα=Iy(y2) ⇒ α(x1)<y2  
by our last lemma (on α) we see that Ix(x1)≅Iy(α(x1)) and by φ's construction we see that Ix(x1)≅Iy(y1) ⇒　y1=α(x1)  
yet earlier we saw α(x1)<y2 ⇒　y1<y2 ⇒　φ is a bijection and a homomorphism ⇒ φ is an isomorphism(why? try proving by contradiction...) ⇒　A≅B  
so if A=X B=Y we get (1)  
if A⊂X　then X\A≠∅. As a subset of a woset X\A has a minimal element C. Let's prove Ix(c)=A
- Let x∈Ix(c) ⇒ x<c ⇒ x∈A ⇒ Ix(c)⊆A
- Let x∈A, c∈X\A ⇒ x≠c. Assume c<x. x∈A　⇒　∃β(isomorphism)：Ix(x) ↦ Iy(φ(x))  using last lemma for β,c↦ Ix(c)≅Iy(β(c))  ↦ c∈A but c∈X\A. ↦ contradiction  ↦ x<c ⇒ x∈Ix(c) ⇒ A⊆Ix(c)
⇒ A=Ix(c) //in the exact same waywe get B=Iy(d) for d=the minimal element in Y/B
Conclusion:
A=X ∧　B=Y ⇒　(1) (X≅Y)
A=X ∧　B⊂Y ⇒　(2) (X≅Iy(d)) 
A⊂X ∧　B=Y ⇒　(3) (Y≅Ix(c))

(A⊂X ∧　B⊂Y ⇒　B≅Iy(d)∧ A≅Ix(c)∧ A≅B ⇒　Iy(d)≅Ix(c) ⇒ d∈B∧c∈A which is a contradiction.  
If (X≅Y)∧(X≅Iy(d)) then Y≅Iy(d) but Y can't be isomorphic to its Risha 
If X≅Iy(d)∧Y≅Ix(c) then let δ:X ↦ Iy(d) be an isomorphism　⇒ Ix(c)=Iy(δ(c))(≅Y) which is again - a contradiction(Why?)

ergo
 ◼ 

